.. _quick_start_commercial:

Greatest Common Divisor Pipe Cleaner
==========================================================================

The GcdUnit module computes the greatest common divisor function and is a
great design that has only 100-200 gates to quickly spin through the flow.
Importantly, it contains only standard cells and no memory macros, greatly
decreasing the complexity of the design. The datapath includes two state
registers and the required muxing and arithmetic units to iteratively
implement Euclidâ€™s algorithm. The diagram below shows a hybrid Moore/Mealy
FSM for controlling the datapath. Mealy transitions in the calc state
determine whether to swap or subtract.

.. image:: _static/images/gcdunit.svg
  :align: center

To start the GcdUnit pipe cleaner, first start the built-in demo:

.. code:: bash

    % mflowgen run --demo
    % cd mflowgen-demo
    % top=$(pwd)

Then create a build directory and configure for this design:

.. code:: bash

    % cd $top
    % mkdir build && cd build
    % mflowgen run --design ../GcdUnit
    % make list

Then open the mflowgen graph to see what this pipe cleaner flow looks
like:

.. code:: bash

    % make graph
    (open graph.pdf in a PDF viewer like evince)
    % evince graph.pdf

Here is the list of nodes:

.. code:: bash

    % make list
     -  0 : freepdk-45nm
     -  1 : rtl
     -  2 : info
     -  3 : constraints
     -  4 : testbench
     -  5 : rtl-sim
     -  6 : gen-saif-rtl
     -  7 : synopsys-dc-synthesis
     -  8 : cadence-innovus-flowsetup
     -  9 : cadence-innovus-init
     - 10 : cadence-innovus-power
     - 11 : cadence-innovus-place
     - 12 : cadence-innovus-cts
     - 13 : cadence-innovus-postcts_hold
     - 14 : cadence-innovus-route
     - 15 : cadence-innovus-postroute
     - 16 : cadence-innovus-signoff
     - 17 : mentor-calibre-gdsmerge
     - 18 : synopsys-pt-timing-signoff
     - 19 : synopsys-ptpx-rtl
     - 20 : synopsys-ptpx-genlibdb
     - 21 : mentor-calibre-drc
     - 22 : gl-sim
     - 23 : mentor-calibre-lvs
     - 24 : gen-saif-gl
     - 25 : synopsys-ptpx-gl

Feel free to cross-check the construct.py, the graph visualization, and
the `node configuration files
<https://github.com/mflowgen/mflowgen/tree/main/nodes>`_ to see which
files are passing between which nodes.

You will see that the GcdUnit RTL, a constraints file, and the technology
interface from freepdk-45nm passes into the "synopsys-dc-synthesis" node.
Compare this graph to the Python description of the graph in
``GcdUnit/construct.py``.

Here is a high-level overview of the Innovus nodes. The
``cadence-innovus-flowsetup`` node first uses a script generator to
generate the base scripts used in each of the downstream Innovus nodes
(also see the section on the Cadence Innovus Foundation Flow later in this
handout). The ``cadence-innovus-init`` node starts place and route by
reading in the design. Each of the subsequent nodes reads in a checkpoint
(i.e., an Innovus database), does something (e.g., runs placement), and
outputs another checkpoint. At the end of the flow, the
``cadence-innovus-signoff`` node dumps all outputs of place and route.
These outputs include the final gate-level netlist, GDS, and other files,
which are used to run further signoff nodes (e.g., Calibre DRC and LVS).
Notice that a GDS merge node is needed to merge the GDS from place and
route (which includes only the wires) with the GDS of the standard cell
library.

You can run the GcdUnit pipe cleaner through to signoff like this:

.. code:: bash

    % make list   # check which node number signoff is
    % make 16     # assuming signoff is node 16
    % make status # signoff should be marked done

Each of the Innovus nodes can be brought up on a GUI with a debug target like this:

.. code:: bash

    % make debug-16 # brings up Innovus GUI after signoff

You should also get a sense of the run time of each node:

.. code:: bash

    % make runtimes



